---
title: What I Want From the Fediverse
permalink: /b4.0016/
tags: [ActivityPub,Fediverse,Mastodon,Ghost,Website]
date: 2025-08-27T17:08:09.000+10:00
---

# What I Want From the Fediverse

Was going to Ghost the right choice for me?

I thought it was a good move. My website, blog, and Fediverse presence are all on the same platform and all on the same domain. But it's not quite what I wanted...

For starters, my fediverse "handle" is `@death_au@death.id.au`. I want to use `.au` instead of `_au`, but Ghost won't let me. Secondly, (and I know this is not important in the slightest, but it matters to me for some reason), my actual ActivityPub ID is `https://death.id.au/.ghost/activitypub/users/index` which seems pretty cumbersome when it could be my ideal of `https://death.id.au`, or at least more like `https://death.id.au/profile/death.au`...

Another thing that's bothering me is having to use the Ghost admin interface to look at my feed of people I'm following. I liked the experience of using the Fedilab app connected to my Friendica instance. But that's because Fedilab uses the Mastodon APIs, which Friendica also implements for compatibility's sake.

It all seems so... messy.

What seems like an obvious thing to me, but doesn't seem to exist for a wide variety of technical reasons, is a personal, single-user ActivityPub server. Connected to that server, a variety of "clients" doing things in different ways. For example, my website could pull objects (i.e. Notes, Articles... even pictures or videos, maybe?) directly from my ActivityPub outbox and display them. I've toyed with the idea of using a static site generator like Eleventy to pull and format the data into HTML files. I could also have a separate web interface to interact with the Fediverse, i.e. to do the actual posting.

It could even be multiple clients! Imagine having something like the Ghost back-end for posting articles, separate from a YouTube/PeerTube-like back-end for posting videos, separate again from a feed reader that allows me to like/comment/subscribe to posts of people I'm following on Mastodon or Ghost or any other Fediverse platform. I could even set up a Mastodon API client layer so that Fedilab (or other Mastodon apps) could connect to the very same ActivityPub server as the rest of it. All posts would be from the same handle/ID. All activities from people I follow would end up in the same inbox.

But that's a dream at this stage. What can I achieve right now? Is there a way to install Friendica — with its wide compatibility — at my root domain, while still serving up a static website at that very same domain? It's something that seems like it should be possible with the right redirects and DNS rules, but it's something I haven't been able to crack yet...
