---
title: Johnny Decimal (Part One)
date: 2024-04-09
permalink: /b4.0012/
tags: [Blog,Johnny Decimal,PKM]
external_url: https://monrepos.casa/objects/0e03068e-8066-14ce-bc7b-9b9403334690
---

# Johnny Decimal (Part One)

I've taken a leap and have started organising all the things with a Johnny Decimal system.
It's been something I've been mulling over for some time, and with the Johnny Decimal workshop coming soon and an attempt to switch to a new OS, it seems like a perfect time to get organised.

I've read through the Johnny Decimal website a few times over the years, and I've been reading the workbook as well. But as with anything organisational, it's deeply personal and you have to take what works for you and throw away what doesn't. For example, the recommended process for organising with Johnny Decimal is to write a scope statement and brain dump all of your related stuff for a week before moving to the organisation process.
Well, my brain is impatient, and if I were to follow that I'd probably spend an hour writing down a bunch of stuff on the first day, write a few more on the second, and then probably forget about the process altogether until a couple of weeks later, at which point I feel guilty about it and don't want to touch it. It might sound overdramatic, but I'm pretty sure that's what happened when I tried to use Johnny Decimal to organise my Obsidian Vault in the past.
So, screw that, I just jumped into creating Areas and Categories straight away.
<iframe src="//coub.com/embed/3e6xav?muted=true&autostart=false&originalSize=false&startWithHD=false" allowfullscreen frameborder="0" width="640" height="354" allow="autoplay"></iframe><script async src="//c-cdn.coub.com/embed-runner.js"></script>

To start with, I created a new Obsidian vault (knowing full well that this time it's going to be much more than just Obsidian). Rather than making an index note or a canvas (which I did start playing with, to be fair), I decided to just start with folders. I created folders for all the projects I've got going on from the top of my head. I created folders for documents and important resources. As I went, I grouped some things together that made sense, not worrying about how deep or broad anything went, yet. I went through my cloud storage folder for things I wasn't remembering and added those folders in.
When I thought I had enough stuff, I put more effort into the grouping. I realised I had a lot of categories and I didn't feel like I had enough room for only 10 areas. But I quickly noticed that a lot of the areas and categories were specifically for software development work, while others were more personal, life management stuff. I considered splitting each of the dev areas out into their own systems, but that seemed like overkill. Instead, I settled on a system for dev stuff, and a system for life, etc.

And so, I had my first base for IDs: `W01` for all my work and dev related stuff, and `L42` for Life, the Universe and Everything (geddit?).
The way I'd split up my areas, `W01` was still looking a bit tight for areas, but workable. But I noticed something else. Quite a lot of the areas were for developments and projects that were out there in the open for everyone to see, while there were a few areas that were related to actual employed work that was *not* out in the open. So I had an idea: What if I split the work system into two: One for public and one for private? I could potentially publish notes in an Obsidian vault with the public stuff (Working with the garage door open), while not risking publishing private stuff, because it's entirely separate.
Rather than boring old `W01` and `W02`, I couldn't help but think of HTTP Code 401 — meaning "Unauthorised" — because people would need to be authorised to see stuff in that system. Also, because of the nature of my public work, it made sense to label the public one 201 — meaning "Created".
I know that Jonny says that systems work best as letter-number-number, but the whole point is to keep things memorable, and I have a mnemonic for this, so I'm just rolling with it.

Now with my System IDs in place, I was ready to roll out the next levels of ids, to fit with the Johnny Decimal `SYS.AC.ID` format
When creating numbers for my areas, I stuck to Johnny's template of using `00-09` for stuff to do with the system. I also found a couple of categories I couldn't seem to fit into a particular area, so I created `90-99 Miscellany` as an area to catch all that stuff. For example, `L42.91` is a place to archive some old journal stuff; `201.91` is for a LEGO keyboard side-project which doesn't really fit into any of my other areas or categories.
Following on from that idea of using `9` for miscellany, I set up `201.99` as a place to hold random ideas about things to work on in the future.

Also, I decided to follow the `A0` categories (`10`, `20`, etc) as being reserved for system information about the area (not that I'm really using it yet). But I also took this one step further and reserved the `AC.0x` IDs for special standards within a particular category. I plan to use `AC.01` for notes about a particular category. Especially if I'm eventually planning to publish stuff under this format, it makes sense to have at least a note explaining the context of a category. Using my LEGO Keyboard example, `201.91.01` would be the ID for a note explaining the general idea and reasoning around the project.
Similarly, I'm using `L42.00.01` to store a note *about* the system, documenting non-Johnny standards like this. while keeping `00.00` free as the index.
I'm also planning on using `AC.10` as a category inbox, for stuff that I still have to sort and/or assign an ID to. This means all my IDs start at 11, which is a little odd, but it just means every digit in the id starts with 1 and goes up from there when giving a thing an ID. if there's a zero in it, it's some sort of meta thing, or information about the thing. (I mean, that's not strictly true because 20, 30, etc exist, but it works in my head, okay?)

As I went along like this, I also noticed that in a few of the areas, I had created a folder for general resources and/or documentation that would assist me in that area. For example, in `201.20-29 Game Dev` I had a category for documentation of the game engines I was using.
Even in my life system, I had a couple of categories for things like the ringtones I keep around to use on my phone. And so, just as `9` was my standard number for miscellany, so to `8` has become my number for resources and documentation.
That game engine documentation is all going to go in `201.28`. Plus I also have an entire area (`201.80-89`) for resources and docs on various technologies, tools and development resources (all the music, SFX and resource packs I've purchased from Humble over the years are going to live in `201.88`). My ringtones are in `L42.87`.
I'm also planning on using `AC.08` as a sort of container for "category bookmarks". Links to a GitHub repository, or a ClickUp task list, that kind of thing.

So we have some standards going! `0` means meta, `9` means misc and `8` means some sort of resource. It won't always work that way, but it's enough to be able to look at the system as a whole (i.e. all three systems) and see consistency and patterns. And that's what we want, right?
If I want the DragonRuby documentation, it's a resource, so will have an `8` in it, and it's to do with my game dev work, which is public, so it's probably in `201.28` somewhere. There's probably even a direct link in my bookmarks in `201.28.08`. If it's not, for whatever reason, there are at most two or three other locations it could be (somewhere in the `201.80`s, perhaps?) and even if it is, I should probably also duplicate it where I looked first.

The only thing I was having trouble categorising so far was my blog posts. Looking at the Johnny Decimal website for inspiration, it seems the blog posts are identified with an example of: `D01.22.00.0031` (if I include the system identifier, which isn't done on the website). It's a lot. It kinda has to be, really. Theoretically `22.00` is an index, but it hasn't been built yet, and all the posts are identified by four-digit numbers under that.
So for me, `201` is my public dev, `10-19` is general stuff, `14` is my website. So, like `201.14.11.0001` or even `201.14.00.0001`? It just feels like a lot. Plus, I kind of have another level in there because I've had a couple of different blogs over the years, and I feel like consolidating them. But keeping them as sequential doesn't make sense to me, as each blog had its own context.
So, I'm gonna cheat. I'm making a new area just for my blog: `201.B0-B9`. Yep, I'm putting letters in the categories; time to call the men in the white coats to come and take me away.
But seriously, the reason I'm doing this is because the letter makes it unique, and while it will live in my `201` system, none of the resulting IDs need to reference that to be unique. `B1` is the category for my oldest blog (at least the oldest one I can find), with `B1.01` being the content of the "About" page for that old blog, providing the context for the rest of the posts in that category. Right now, this post is `B4.12`, which is much better than `201.14.14.0002` (though I am considering using the 4 digits like JD does, so `B4.0012`).
It's going to be so great when I fix it all up on my website and can link directly to `https://death.id.au/B4.0012` — but that's still way off in the future.

For now, most of my folders are empty and still need to be populated with stuff. I also need to build an index that I can easily update and add IDs to. And I need to start using the IDs in other contexts; like e-mail, ClickUp, code repositories, etc. Plus, you know, there is *actual* work to be done, aside from organising all my work.

<iframe src="//coub.com/embed/3e6wp1?muted=true&autostart=false&originalSize=false&startWithHD=false" allowfullscreen frameborder="0" width="640" height="360" allow="autoplay"></iframe><script async src="//c-cdn.coub.com/embed-runner.js"></script>

Just replace the word "children" with "work" in this clip. {.caption}

But I'm going to try moving my stuff over as I go, tagging things with JD.IDs as I need them.
I'm trying to embrace "[Working with the garage door open](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/zCMhncA1iSE74MKKYQS5PBZ)", at least in part so I stick with it.
I'll try to keep updated.