---
title: Pro Tanto
date: 2011-03-03
permalink: /b1.01/
tags: [Pro Tanto]
---

# Pro Tanto

_“Pro Tanto”_ – According to Wikipedia, it means “for so much”, or “something that has only been partially fulfilled”.

I have a lot of ideas. Some of them good, some bad, and some downright terrible upon reflection. But the majority of these ideas have one thing in common: They never get finished. I’ve always done it. Even when I was much younger I’d start to write stories with great ideas for plot twists that never got realized because I only really wrote the introduction. I even started a web comic based on [_Concerned_](http://www.hlcomic.com/ "Concerned: A humor comic based on the world of Half-Life 2.") that only ever got two comics in. And I still have grand plans for where that was heading.

I’ve tried making blogs before, but as with most things I’ve done I made a few posts and then was done with them. So what’s different this time? Possibly nothing. I might be lucky to get a few posts in and then drop it again. However, the idea behind this blog is to keep it going by plugging in more ideas.

_Pro Tanto_ will be a place for me to throw up the ideas I have that may or may not go anywhere. If I leave an idea for dead and then for whatever reason decide to come back to it later, the original idea will be preserved here on this blog for me to refer to later. And if I’m _really_ lucky, a visitor or two may swing by and leave comments on my ideas, helping me shape them and provide motivation to bring ideas into reality. That’s the plan, anyway.

As my current ambition is in games development, a lot of the ideas posted here will be for game ideas. I may also post about interesting projects at work from time to time. I could post about some sort of real-world DIY project I had an idea for. Or I may just throw up something I found funny on the internet, or the odd musing about life – You know, like most blogs do. If I do end up using the blog for its intended purpose, it’s going to be filled with a lot of meaningless junk. Some of it may relate, most of it will not.

The one thing you can most likely count on is everything being quite disjointed and not fitting together properly.