---
title: Game Idea — The Humble Indie Rumble
date: 2012-06-09
# type: draft
permalink: /b1.22/
tags: [Pro Tanto,idea,games,unfinished]
---

# Game Idea — The Humble Indie Rumble

Well, this blog has well and truly fallen by the wayside...

This is an idea that's been kicking around in my head for a long, long time. But it has been brought to the forefront recently for various reasons. The basis of the idea is simple enough: A Super Smash Bros. clone with Indie game characters. Super Meat Boy vs The Sythian, Josef (the robot from Machinarium) vs ... that guy from Braid, Commander Video vs Captain Viridian, you get the idea. Of course, There's a little bit more meat to the idea than simply cloning Smash Bros, but I hope to get into that in another post. In this post I wanted to talk more about where the idea has come from; and even though it's most likely I'll never make a game like this, I really want this idea above all else to exist.

The idea of a mash-up fighting game such as this has been around in my head almost as long as Super Smash Bros. itself, but the roots of the idea go back further than that. In fact, they probably go back to the classic movie "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" As a child, there was something amazing about having characters from all corners of cartoon land together in one film. Even then I knew that Warner Bros and Disney were rivals, but yet their characters came together for one amazing experience that as far as I know has never been repeated.

There's something amazing to see multiple things you're a fan of come together. Especially if they are rivals, but also if they are unrelated.